add environment variable for QGIS startup, deploying QGIS in an organization (#3642)
qgis/QGIS-Documentation: source/docs/user_manual/introduction/qgis_configuration.rst

   The user profile folder can be opened from within QGIS using the
   :guilabel:`Open Active Profile Folder`.

> #. The new profile opens a new instance of QGIS, using a clean and unchanged

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. A new instance of QGIS is started, using the clean
```

>    configuration from installation. You can then set your custom configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   configuration. You can then set your custom configurations.
```

Running QGIS with advanced settings
===================================

Command line and environment variables
--------------------------------------

We've seen that :ref:`launching QGIS <label_startingqgis>` is done as for any
application on your OS.

> QGIS however provides command line options for more advanced use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
QGIS provides command line options for more advanced use cases.
```

> In some cases, you can use an environment variable instead of the command line option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can use an environment variable instead of the command line option).
```

This is useful for developers while testing new versions of the programs
without needing to replace the existing ones.

The equivalent environment variable is ``QGIS_OPENCL_PROGRAM_FOLDER``.

Deploying QGIS within an organization
-------------------------------------

If you need to deploy QGIS within an organization with a custom configuration file,
first you need to copy/paste the content of the default settings file located in
:file:`your_QGIS_PKG_path/resources/qgis_global_settings.ini`.

> Then, you can then change for instance ``allowVersionCheck=false`` to disable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then change ``allowVersionCheck=false`` to disable
```

the version check from QGIS.

> If you want to not display the migration window after a fresh install, you need

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not want to display the migration window after a fresh install, you need
```

the following section:

.. code-block:: ini

    [migration]
    fileVersion=2
    settings=true

You can add your custom settings at the end of the

> file, even if the section is duplicated, for instance a PostGIS connection.

Reviewer: I don't understand this. Can it be explained differently?

Author: I will try. We did some experimentation with my system administrator and we weren't sure about what we were doing ;-)

Finally, you need to set the environment variable ``QGIS_GLOBAL_SETTINGS_FILE``

> with your customized path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to your customized path.
```

> You can also deploy layout files, color palettes, custom :file:`startup.py` file,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also deploy layout files, color palettes, a custom :file:`startup.py` file,
```

This is useful for developers while testing new versions of the programs
without needing to replace the existing ones.

The equivalent environment variable is ``QGIS_OPENCL_PROGRAM_FOLDER``.

Deploying QGIS within an organization
-------------------------------------

If you need to deploy QGIS within an organization with a custom configuration file,
first you need to copy/paste the content of the default settings file located in

> :file:`your_QGIS_PKG_path/resources/qgis_global_settings.ini`. This file contains

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:file:`your_QGIS_PKG_path/resources/qgis_global_settings.ini`. This file already
```

> already some default sections identified by a block starting with ``[]``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contains some default sections identified by a block starting with ``[]``.
```

> We recommend you to keep these defaults values and add at the bottom of the file your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend that you keep these defaults values and add your own sections at the bottom
```

> own sections. Even if a section is duplicated in the file, QGIS will take the last

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the file. If a section is duplicated in the file, QGIS will take the last
```

one from top to bottom.

> You can then change ``allowVersionCheck=false`` to disable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change ``allowVersionCheck=false`` to disable
```

> the version check from QGIS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the QGIS version check.
```

If you do not want to display the migration window after a fresh install, you need
the following section:

.. code-block:: ini

    [migration]
    fileVersion=2
    settings=true

If you want to add a custom variable in the global scope:

.. code-block:: ini

   [variables]
   organisation="Your organization"

> To discover all possibilities of the settings ``INI`` file, we suggest you to set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To discover all possibilities of the settings ``INI`` file, we suggest that youset
```

> the config you would like in QGIS Desktop and then to search it in your ``INI``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the config you would like in QGIS Desktop and then to search for it in your ``INI``
```

> the config you would like in QGIS Desktop and then to search it in your ``INI``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the config you would like in QGIS Desktop and then search for it in your ``INI``
```

file located in your profile using a text editor. A lot of settings can be set

> from ``INI`` such as WMS/WMTS, PostGIS connections, proxy settings, maptips…

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using the ``INI`` file such as WMS/WMTS, PostGIS connections, proxy settings, maptips…
```

Finally, you need to set the environment variable ``QGIS_GLOBAL_SETTINGS_FILE``

> to your customized path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the path of your customized file.
```

In addition, you can also deploy files such as Python macros, color palettes,
layout templates, project templates… either in the QGIS system directory or
in the QGIS user profile.

* Layout templates must be deployed in the :file:`composer_templates` directory.
* Project templates must be deployed in the :file:`project_templates` directory.

> * Custom Python macro must be deployed in the :file:`python` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Custom Python macros must be deployed in the :file:`python` directory.
```
